# Heterogeneous Expectation Formation

The aim of this dissertation was to explore heterogeneous expectation formation in an asset pricing model environment. We reviewed literature comparing two approaches to expectation formation: the established Rational Expectation hypothesis and the more contemporary approach, Heterogeneous Expectation hypothesis. We found there were validity issues with the Rational Expectation hypothesis assumptions, which meant, empirically the assumptions failed to hold. Moreover, there was significant evidence proving the existence of heterogeneity, in expectation formation. For heterogeneity, we allowed the use of _two_ statistical methods (simple linear regressions and autoregressions) for expectation formation in our model. Agents had two objectives: _i)_ to predict the future asset market price and, _ii)_ keep, sell or buy an asset, alternatively, they could choose inactivity. We found agents using both statistical methods had developed a preference to keep assets, rather than to sell. Then, we investigated how observability could impact agents’ decisions and found it had a deterring effect on agents, they were more likely to choose inactivity than to keep, sell or buy. Our model has many limitations, the first being that it is a cursory and oversimplified exploration of the complexities involved in decision-making. Ergo, this model captures complexities within an exogenous data-generating process, it fails to provide a complete model by excluding endogenous heterogeneity. In addition to the above, our model uses a synthetic population, rather than human subjects, as do most Heterogeneous Expectation Formation models. Thus, our results are limited in terms of generalisations and extrapolations to real-life populations. 
